---
title: The Basics
author: J. Austin Straley, DO
date: 2022-11-14
category: Jekyll
layout: post
---

*<center><mark>“That sign can’t stop me because I can’t read”</mark></center>*

1. General (Important)
    - If you're here, you’re not lost. If you do get lost, reference:
        - [New Hire Locations][1]
    - Email Tutorial: Microsoft Office/Outlook/OneDrive/SharePoint
        - Email, Lists, Resources
    - See the CAMC Staff Handbook and Resident Orientation & Benefits books located in the Intern Guide folder for more information on the Basics of CAMC
        - Rotation Curriculum Guides
    - Work/Call Schedules
        - Accessed via AMION and can be downloaded to your calendar
        - Morning Report/Didactic Calendar
    - [New Innovations][2]
        - Where your onboarding was completed, where you will be logging you duty hours, signing into lecture, seeing your block schedule, completing evaluations and curriculum reviews
        - Duty Hour Tutorial: [Logging Duty Hours on New Innovations][3]
    - Duty Hours
        - Unfortunately, Very High Yield*
        - High Points:
            - Must be logged every 72 hours per CAMC
                - You will get emails if you forget or don’t log them
                    - You will then get a text from katie to log them
                        - Then people get mad (So just do them)
            - Try not to break 80 hours
                - This is averaged over an entire month
                    - Ex. 90 for 3 weeks and 30 hours for 1 week = 60 hours/week
                - Ex. 12 days on, 2 days off, 12 days on, 2 days off = average of 4 days off
            - You may get close to breaking duty hours on ICU
                - BEFORE you break hours, contact a Chief Resident/Attending so arrangements can be made to allow you time off
        - Reference Duty Hour Guidelines Document


2. General (Slightly Less Important)
    - Advisors
        - Resident Advisor: Should have already texted/called/emailed you
        - Faculty Advisor:
            - Assigned by Dr. Helmick, may be changed if you vibe with another attending and they’re ok with it
            - Mandatory meetings at 3 months, 6 months and 1 year
                - Time for feedback/ITE scores/Learning Plan
    - In-Training Exam (ITE)
        - Yearly exam of IM board level questions
        - Used to evaluate where you are compared to your peers
        - Not supposed to study for it…. The better you do the harder you have to work next year to show improvement.
            - Probation if you do really bad, so don’t "Christmas Tree" it
	• Call Rooms
        - See Day-to-Day on the Medicine Service
        - There are multiple rooms reserved for the medicine residents on nights on the 4th floor. 
            - To get to these, take the elevator down one floor from the Team 2 work room. 
            - As you get off, come around the corner to where 4 east should be. 
                - Instead of a 4 East, the resident call rooms are there
        - “Lockers are available in resident work areas for use. To receive a locker assignment and lock, a resident should contact the GME office. Assigned locks must be used. Lockers, per CAMC policy, are subject to inspection. “– CAMC Staff Handbook
    - Calling/Phone
        - When in doubt, Dial “0” on any phone in the hospital
            - Links you to the operator who can direct you to the appropriate phone
            - Say who you are and where you’re calling from and where you’re trying to reach
                - Ex. “This is doctor Straley with the medicine service, could you connect me with pharmacy at memorial please”
        - Calling someone outside the hospital from a CAMC phone
            - Enter “91” before the number
                - Ex. 91-304-555-5555
        - Returning calls/pages from a personal phone
            - If you are outside the hospital or not near a phone, you can return a page by dialing the number based on the INITIAL pager number
                - 304-38(8-XXXX) or 304-95(4-XXXX) depending on the pager number
                    - Ex. Paged from 8-9600, the return call would be 304-388-9600
    - Paging/Pagers
        - To page someone’s pager, dial 88250 on any in-hospital telephone or 304-388-8250 from outside and follow the prompts:
            - “Please enter the pager of the person you are trying to reach followed by the “#” sign
                - Enter the 4- or 5-digit pager number then #
            - “Please enter a call back number followed by the “#” sign”
                - Your number or the 4–5-digit number of the phone you’re on then #
            - Ex. 88250 89600# 304-555-5555# or 88250 89600# 55555#
        - “When a resident is on duty, he/she is expected to return all pages within 15 minutes of the page” – CAMC Staff Handbook
    - Forwarding Pages (From ASCOM to Cell Phone)
        - Click the middle circle button to go to the menu 
        - Click the up button to go to “calls” at the top of the list 
        - Select “call services”
        - Select “divert calls”
        - Select “internal”
        - Select “activate”
        - Enter 91 followed by your 10-digit cell phone number 
        - Click okay 
        - You will then see 3386 > (your cell phone number) on the home screen of the ASCOM
        - Leave the ASCOM in the call room for lecture so that it is within range 
        - When you are all done, repeat the steps, but choose “deactivate” instead
    - Important Numbers
        - Hospital Operator (MOST IMPORTANT): Dial 0 from a hospital phone or 304-388-5432 from outside and ask them to send you where you need to go
        - Utilization Review
            - On Call Weekday: 304-388-6900
            - Nights/Weekend: 304-330-1325
        - On Call Social Worker: 304-590-5693
        - On Call Cardiac Rehab: 304-330-8922
        - Medicine Service Floor pager is 1075  
        - Med Service ICU ASCOM 4-3386
        - Hospitalists 8-9600
    - AMS Connect
        - Most providers and almost all residents use AMS connect
            - Pages are sent both to your pager and AMS, Messages are only on AMS
        - Please see Onboarding to ensure your AMS is set up to receive messages.
    - Sick Days
        - See Leave Policy - 2022 for more information
        - Up to 12 days per year
            - Sick leave 3 days or longer requires a doctor’s excuse as well as release to return to work from the employee health.
            - If a resident has missed more than 3 non-consecutive clinic days during the academic year, they must meet with the Clinic Director.
            - If a resident has utilized more than 5 non-consecutive sick days, they will meet with the Program Director to ensure the well-being of the resident.
        - No matter the service you are calling in sick for, proxy your inbox in Cerner to the person working clinic charts that day.
        - People on Service (Med Service/ICU/Nights/Night float)
            - When calling in sick YOU MUST CALL AND VERBALLY SPEAK to the chief on call
                - You then need to also send an email to the Chiefs, Program Coordinator, and Program Director
            - Please look on [AMION][4] to contact the Chief on call
                - Lauren Searls: 240-520-8101
                - Ayesha Shameem: 217-417-0361
        - Any coverage needed for a senior on med service
            - 1st to cover is MAO unless it is their day off
            - Must sign out patients to covering resident
        - Any coverage needed for a night shift or ICU
            - J1 first to cover
            - Must sign out patients to covering resident
        - Electives
            - “The resident calling in sick must notify their Attending and then send email to include Chiefs, Program Coordinator and Program Director/Associate Program Directors”
        - If Additional coverage needed:
            - A clinic resident may be considered, and patients redistributed (M-Fr)
        - Ambulatory Clinic
            - Any resident that is calling in sick that is assigned to clinic that day must call Emma Simon from 7-7:30 am, her number is 304-350-0697
                - Thereafter, an email must be sent to include Emma Simon, Chiefs, Clinic Director, Program Coordinator and Program Director/Associate Program Directors.
                - Call Dr. Anees if unable to get ahold of Emma Simon
    - Time Off/Vacation
        - See Leave Policy - 2022 for more information
        - No Call Requests
            - You can request one weekend per month to not be on call
            - Includes both jeopardy and night float
            - Fill out No Call Request Form
        - 3 Professional leave days may be used over the duration of your residency for the sole purpose of interviewing for residency, fellowship, or practice positions.
    - Scrubs
        - Everyone gets 2 pairs
        - Machines can be found on the 2nd floor near surgery and the 2nd floor of Heart and Vascular before you get to the Cath labs
    - Questions?
        - Follow the ladder:
            - Senior -> Chief -> Attending -> Campbell/Helmick
        - Katie Scott is also very helpful for almost everything you could need, email her: Kathryn.Scott@CAMC.org


[1]: https://www.camc.org/newhirelocations
[2]: https://www.new-innov.com/Login/Login.aspx
[3]: https://youtu.be/dkpLhmxxwpU
[4]: https://www.amion.com/cgi-bin/ocs

